# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Yellow Belt

You qualified for a Yellow Belt 🥋🟡 and got a final grade of 4.31/6 for M1. Good start! Keep practicing to improve. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 3.97 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 3.5 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 5 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 5.5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 4.5 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **4.31 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

For the current stage of the app, the APK is quite clean already, except for the bug that makes it crash when trying to effectuate different actions with firebase. Sadly this is a major issue as the app isn't really usable without proper account management and when it crashes often.

There is no meaningful end-to-end test for M1.

Good repo setup in general. CI is good. Documentation of convention is good, a few old branches don't respect the naming conventions though, but it's a minor issue.

For this part, you received 3.97 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

Sprint Backlog for Sprint 3 lacks some tasks. The present tasks are also missing tags and assignee.

Product Backlog is furnished and detailed. But you should define more clearly the priotitarization of the different user stories.

For this part, you received 3.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.

Figma is great, try to have it completly in sync with the app and try to implement UI ahead in Figma more, so you have more time to discuss and tweak things.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

Architecture diagram has details about future implementations, it's good that you think ahead on that. A few things can probably be improved to make the architecture simpler. For example why not put the rating as part of a profile. This would lower the complexity of the rating management code.

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.

The team Scrum documents are filled and detailed. It contains most important information. However it doens't mention the issues you had with tests.You had to remove lots of tests for Sprint 2. Then how to address this issue should be a central question of Sprint 2 retrospective.

Scrum meetings are going great. You are becoming more independant. You can probably also improve on risk planning.

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 4.31. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!




